README.md, before:

OpenTok Android Annotations Plugin
===========================

This plugin adds annotation and screen capture capabilities to OpenTok for Android.

Notes
-----

* See [OpenTok Android SDK developer and client requirements](http://tokbox.com/opentok/libraries/client/android/#developerandclientrequirements) for a list of system requirements and supported devices.

* See the [OpenTok Android SDK Reference](http://tokbox.com/opentok/libraries/client/android/reference/index.html)
for details on the API.

Installing
----------

### Gradle

1. Add `compile 'com.opentok.android.plugin:annotations-component:1.0.0'` to `dependencies` in your module's build.gradle file.
2. Sync Gradle and build your project.

### .AAR in Android Studio

1. Download the [latest version]() of the plugin.
2. Right click on your project module (usually called "app" but may be something else) and choose "Open Module Settings" from the bottom of the menu.
3. Click the '+' sign in the upper left hand corner.
4. Choose "Import .JAR or .AAR Package" from the list in the popup.
5. Locate the AAR file in the zip downloaded in step 1.
6. Follow the prompts and build your project.
7. Click the "+" button at the bottom of the dependencies screen, and choose "module dependency". It will add the line "compile project(':opentokAnnotations')" to the app build.gradle.

Using the plugin
----------------

For a quick start, download the [OpenTok Android samples](https://github.com/opentok/opentok-android-sdk-samples). If you already have your own project to work with,
the steps below should help you incorporate the annotations plugin.

We'll use the `HelloWorldActivity` from the samples to demonstrate how the plugin works.

Add the `AnnotationToolbar` to your view. The easiest way is to include in in your layout resource file:

```xml
<com.opentok.android.plugin.AnnotationToolbar
    android:id="@+id/toolbar"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="?android:attr/actionBarSize"/>
```

In `HelloWorldActivity.java`, add the following to the onCreate method:

```java
mToolbar = (AnnotationToolbar) findViewById(R.id.toolbar);
```

Add the following lines to the end of the `attachSubscriberView` method (Note: the annotation view should be added to the `mSubscriberViewContainer` after the subscriber view).

```java
private void attachSubscriberView(Subscriber subscriber) {
    ...

    // Add these 3 lines to attach the annotation view to the subscriber view
    AnnotationView annotationView = new AnnotationView(this);
    mSubscriberViewContainer.addView(annotationView);
    annotationView.attachSubscriber(subscriber);

    // Add this line to attach the annotation view to the toolbar
    annotationView.attachToolbar(mToolbar);
}
```

Add the following lines to the ends of the `attachPublisherView` method (Note: the annotation view should be added to the `mPublisherViewContainer` after the publisher view).

```java
private void attachPublisherView(Publisher publisher) {
    ...

    // Add these 3 lines to attach the annotation view to the publisher view
    AnnotationView annotationView = new AnnotationView(this);
    mPublisherViewContainer.addView(annotationView);
    annotationView.attachPublisher(publisher);

    // Add this line to attach the annotation view to the toolbar
    annotationView.attachToolbar(mToolbar);
}
```

Last, pass signals through the `AnnotationToolbar` object in the `onSignalReceived` method.

```java
@Override
public void onSignalReceived(Session session, String type, String data, Connection connection) {
    // Attach the signals to the canvas objects
    mToolbar.attachSignal(session, type, data, connection);
}
```

Note: Make sure that your class implements `Session.SignalListener`. See the [docs]() for more details.

#### Capturing frames

Frames and their annotations can be captured when using the 'ot_item_capture' menu item. The `Bitmap` for
 these captures can be handled using the following callback:

```java
mToolbar.addScreenCaptureListener(new AnnotationToolbar.ScreenCaptureListener() {
    @Override
    public void onScreenCapture(Bitmap screenCapture, String connectionId) {
        Log.i(LOGTAG, "Captured screenshot for connection: " + connectionId);
        // Handle the screen capture, i.e. save the file or create a share intent, etc.
    }
});
```

Customizing the toolbar
----------------

#### <a name="menu-xml"></a>Create menu items through XML

Below is an example of a custom annotation menu, located in <var>res/xml</var>. Here, we create a custom `item_star` menu item in the `ot_menu_shape` group.
See a list of [default menu items](#menu-defaults) below to find out what actions come built into the plugin.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ot-menu
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto">
    <item
        android:id="@+id/ot_item_pen"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_freehand"/>
    <item
        android:id="@+id/ot_item_line"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_line"/>
    <menu-item
        android:id="@+id/ot_menu_shape"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_shapes">
        <item
            android:id="@+id/ot_item_arrow"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_arrow"/>
        <item
            android:id="@+id/ot_item_rectangle"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_rectangle"/>
        <item
            android:id="@+id/ot_item_oval"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_oval"/>
        <!-- User-added custom item -->
        <item
            android:id="@+id/item_star"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_star"/>
    </menu-item>
    <menu-item
        android:id="@+id/ot_menu_colors">
        <!-- Items added dynamically -->
    </menu-item>
    <menu-item
        android:id="@+id/ot_menu_line_width"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_line_width">
        <!-- Items added dynamically -->
    </menu-item>
    <item
        android:id="@+id/ot_item_clear"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_clear" />
</ot-menu>
```

To inflate the custom menu in the toolbar, make sure you add an action listener to the toolbar object using `mToolbar.addActionListener(this);`
(make sure your class implements `AnnotationToolbar.ActionListener`) and add the following to the `onCreateAnnotationMenu` method.

```java
@Override
public boolean onCreateAnnotationMenu(AnnotationMenuView menu) {
    // ot_extended is the name of the annotation menu xml file in 'res/xml'
    menu.inflateMenu(R.xml.ot_extended, mToolbar);

    return true;
}
```

Note: The annotation toolbar only supports a single submenu. For additional group/menu options, you can use the `onAnnotationMenuItemSelected`
listener method to add a popover, dropdown, dialog, or any other view to allow more options.

#### <a name="menu-defaults"></a>Default menu items

Below is a list of default menu items that can be used in your custom menu. These come pre-built with the action specified. If no custom menu is inflated
in the `onCreateAnnotationMenu` listener method, these will be automatically added to your toolbar.

| id            | Action        |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| R.id.ot_item_pen | Freehand/Pen tool |
| R.id.ot_item_line | Line tool |
| R.id.ot_menu_shape | Shapes group/submenu |
| R.id.ot_item_arrow | Arrow tool |
| R.id.ot_item_rectangle | Rectangle tool |
| R.id.ot_item_oval | Oval tool |
| R.id.ot_menu_colors | Color picker submenu |
| R.id.ot_menu_line_width | Line width picker submenu |
| R.id.ot_item_clear | Clears active user annotations |
| R.id.ot_item_capture | Tap a video frame to capture a screenshot |

#### Handling custom items

First, make sure you add an action listener (`mToolbar.addActionListener(this);`) to the toolbar (implement `AnnotationToolbar.ActionListener`).

Below is an example of adding a star annotation shape to the `R.id.item_star` menu item created [above](#menu-xml).

```java
@Override
public void onAnnotationItemSelected(AnnotationToolbarItem item) {
    int id = item.getItemId();

    switch (id) {
        case R.id.item_star: {
            FloatPoint[] starPoints = {
                    // INFO To invert the star, use 360-a for the angle
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(90)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(90))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(126)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(126))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(162)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(162))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(198)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(198))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(234)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(234))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(270)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(270))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(306)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(306))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(342)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(342))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(18)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(18))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(54)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(54))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(90)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(90))),
            };

            item.setPoints(starPoints);
        }
            break;
    }
}
```

#### Custom annotation colors

To add a completely new custom palette, create an array of colors and pass it into the toolbar object.

```java
int[] colors = {
        Color.BLUE,
        Color.RED,
        Color.GREEN,
        Color.parseColor("#FF8C00"),  // Orange
        Color.parseColor("#FFD700"),  // Yellow
        Color.parseColor("#4B0082")   // Purple
};

mToolbar.setColorChoices(colors);
```

To add a new color to the existing palette, pass the <var>int</var> value for the color into the toolbar object.

```java
mToolbar.addColorChoice(Color.parseColor("#008080")); /* Teal */
```

For best results
----------------

In order to ensure that all annotations aren't cut off across devices, it is recommended to use predefined
aspect ratios for your video frames. It's a good idea to use the same aspect ratio across device platforms
(see how to set the aspect ratio for [iOS]() and [JavaScript]()).

```java
RelativeLayout.LayoutParams layoutParams = new RelativeLayout.LayoutParams(width, height);
mSubscriberViewContainer.addView(mSubscriber.getView(), layoutParams);
```

```java
RelativeLayout.LayoutParams layoutParams = new RelativeLayout.LayoutParams(scale*width, scale*height);
mPublisherViewContainer.addView(mPublisher.getView(), layoutParams);
```

Commit message:

Updated readme with details for adding cloned repo as module

README.md, after:

OpenTok Android Annotations Plugin
===========================

This plugin adds annotation and screen capture capabilities to OpenTok for Android.

Notes
-----

* See [OpenTok Android SDK developer and client requirements](http://tokbox.com/opentok/libraries/client/android/#developerandclientrequirements) for a list of system requirements and supported devices.

* See the [OpenTok Android SDK Reference](http://tokbox.com/opentok/libraries/client/android/reference/index.html)
for details on the API.

Installing
----------

### Gradle

1. Add `compile 'com.tokbox:opentok-android-annotations:1.0.0'` to `dependencies` in your module's build.gradle file.
2. Sync Gradle and build your project.

### .AAR in Android Studio

1. Download the [latest version]() of the plugin.
2. Right click on your project module (usually called "app" but may be something else) and choose "Open Module Settings" from the bottom of the menu.
3. Click the '+' sign in the upper left hand corner.
4. Choose "Import .JAR or .AAR Package" from the list in the popup.
5. Locate the AAR file in the zip downloaded in step 1.
6. Follow the prompts and build your project.
7. Click the "+" button at the bottom of the dependencies screen, and choose "module dependency". It will add the line "compile project(':opentokAnnotations')" to the app build.gradle.

### Clone/download this repo

1. Once you've cloned/downloaded the files from this repo, right click on your project module (usually called "app" but may be something else) and choose "Open Module Settings" from the bottom of the menu.
2. Click the '+' sign in the upper left hand corner.
3. Choose "Import Existing Project" from the list of options.
4. Browse to the location of the cloned/downloaded files, select "Ok" and then "Finish".
5. Click the "+" button at the bottom of the dependencies screen, and choose "module dependency". It will add the line "compile project(':opentokAnnotations')" to the app build.gradle.

Using the plugin
----------------

For a quick start, download the [OpenTok Android samples](https://github.com/opentok/opentok-android-sdk-samples). If you already have your own project to work with,
the steps below should help you incorporate the annotations plugin.

We'll use the `HelloWorldActivity` from the samples to demonstrate how the plugin works.

Add the `AnnotationToolbar` to your view. The easiest way is to include in in your layout resource file:

```xml
<com.opentok.android.plugin.AnnotationToolbar
    android:id="@+id/toolbar"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="?android:attr/actionBarSize"/>
```

In `HelloWorldActivity.java`, add the following to the onCreate method:

```java
mToolbar = (AnnotationToolbar) findViewById(R.id.toolbar);
```

Add the following lines to the end of the `attachSubscriberView` method (Note: the annotation view should be added to the `mSubscriberViewContainer` after the subscriber view).

```java
private void attachSubscriberView(Subscriber subscriber) {
    ...

    // Add these 3 lines to attach the annotation view to the subscriber view
    AnnotationView annotationView = new AnnotationView(this);
    mSubscriberViewContainer.addView(annotationView);
    annotationView.attachSubscriber(subscriber);

    // Add this line to attach the annotation view to the toolbar
    annotationView.attachToolbar(mToolbar);
}
```

Add the following lines to the ends of the `attachPublisherView` method (Note: the annotation view should be added to the `mPublisherViewContainer` after the publisher view).

```java
private void attachPublisherView(Publisher publisher) {
    ...

    // Add these 3 lines to attach the annotation view to the publisher view
    AnnotationView annotationView = new AnnotationView(this);
    mPublisherViewContainer.addView(annotationView);
    annotationView.attachPublisher(publisher);

    // Add this line to attach the annotation view to the toolbar
    annotationView.attachToolbar(mToolbar);
}
```

Last, pass signals through the `AnnotationToolbar` object in the `onSignalReceived` method.

```java
@Override
public void onSignalReceived(Session session, String type, String data, Connection connection) {
    // Attach the signals to the canvas objects
    mToolbar.attachSignal(session, type, data, connection);
}
```

Note: Make sure that your class implements `Session.SignalListener`. See the [docs]() for more details.

#### Capturing frames

Frames and their annotations can be captured when using the 'ot_item_capture' menu item. The `Bitmap` for
 these captures can be handled using the following callback:

```java
mToolbar.addScreenCaptureListener(new AnnotationToolbar.ScreenCaptureListener() {
    @Override
    public void onScreenCapture(Bitmap screenCapture, String connectionId) {
        Log.i(LOGTAG, "Captured screenshot for connection: " + connectionId);
        // Handle the screen capture, i.e. save the file or create a share intent, etc.
    }
});
```

Customizing the toolbar
----------------

#### <a name="menu-xml"></a>Create menu items through XML

Below is an example of a custom annotation menu, located in <var>res/xml</var>. Here, we create a custom `item_star` menu item in the `ot_menu_shape` group.
See a list of [default menu items](#menu-defaults) below to find out what actions come built into the plugin.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ot-menu
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto">
    <item
        android:id="@+id/ot_item_pen"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_freehand"/>
    <item
        android:id="@+id/ot_item_line"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_line"/>
    <menu-item
        android:id="@+id/ot_menu_shape"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_shapes">
        <item
            android:id="@+id/ot_item_arrow"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_arrow"/>
        <item
            android:id="@+id/ot_item_rectangle"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_rectangle"/>
        <item
            android:id="@+id/ot_item_oval"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_oval"/>
        <!-- User-added custom item -->
        <item
            android:id="@+id/item_star"
            app:icon="@drawable/ic_star"/>
    </menu-item>
    <menu-item
        android:id="@+id/ot_menu_colors">
        <!-- Items added dynamically -->
    </menu-item>
    <menu-item
        android:id="@+id/ot_menu_line_width"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_line_width">
        <!-- Items added dynamically -->
    </menu-item>
    <item
        android:id="@+id/ot_item_clear"
        app:icon="@drawable/ic_clear" />
</ot-menu>
```

To inflate the custom menu in the toolbar, make sure you add an action listener to the toolbar object using `mToolbar.addActionListener(this);`
(make sure your class implements `AnnotationToolbar.ActionListener`) and add the following to the `onCreateAnnotationMenu` method.

```java
@Override
public boolean onCreateAnnotationMenu(AnnotationMenuView menu) {
    // ot_extended is the name of the annotation menu xml file in 'res/xml'
    menu.inflateMenu(R.xml.ot_extended, mToolbar);

    return true;
}
```

Note: The annotation toolbar only supports a single submenu. For additional group/menu options, you can use the `onAnnotationMenuItemSelected`
listener method to add a popover, dropdown, dialog, or any other view to allow more options.

#### <a name="menu-defaults"></a>Default menu items

Below is a list of default menu items that can be used in your custom menu. These come pre-built with the action specified. If no custom menu is inflated
in the `onCreateAnnotationMenu` listener method, these will be automatically added to your toolbar.

| id            | Action        |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| R.id.ot_item_pen | Freehand/Pen tool |
| R.id.ot_item_line | Line tool |
| R.id.ot_menu_shape | Shapes group/submenu |
| R.id.ot_item_arrow | Arrow tool |
| R.id.ot_item_rectangle | Rectangle tool |
| R.id.ot_item_oval | Oval tool |
| R.id.ot_menu_colors | Color picker submenu |
| R.id.ot_menu_line_width | Line width picker submenu |
| R.id.ot_item_clear | Clears active user annotations |
| R.id.ot_item_capture | Tap a video frame to capture a screenshot |

#### Handling custom items

First, make sure you add an action listener (`mToolbar.addActionListener(this);`) to the toolbar (implement `AnnotationToolbar.ActionListener`).

Below is an example of adding a star annotation shape to the `R.id.item_star` menu item created [above](#menu-xml).

```java
@Override
public void onAnnotationItemSelected(AnnotationToolbarItem item) {
    int id = item.getItemId();

    switch (id) {
        case R.id.item_star: {
            FloatPoint[] starPoints = {
                    // INFO To invert the star, use 360-a for the angle
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(90)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(90))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(126)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(126))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(162)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(162))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(198)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(198))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(234)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(234))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(270)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(270))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(306)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(306))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(342)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(342))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(18)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(18))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(54)), 0.5f + 0.25f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(54))),
                    new FloatPoint(0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.cos(Math.toRadians(90)), 0.5f + 0.5f*(float)Math.sin(Math.toRadians(90))),
            };

            item.setPoints(starPoints);
        }
            break;
    }
}
```

#### Custom annotation colors

To add a completely new custom palette, create an array of colors and pass it into the toolbar object.

```java
int[] colors = {
        Color.BLUE,
        Color.RED,
        Color.GREEN,
        Color.parseColor("#FF8C00"),  // Orange
        Color.parseColor("#FFD700"),  // Yellow
        Color.parseColor("#4B0082")   // Purple
};

mToolbar.setColorChoices(colors);
```

To add a new color to the existing palette, pass the <var>int</var> value for the color into the toolbar object.

```java
mToolbar.addColorChoice(Color.parseColor("#008080")); /* Teal */
```

For best results
----------------

In order to ensure that all annotations aren't cut off across devices, it is recommended to use predefined
aspect ratios for your video frames. It's a good idea to use the same aspect ratio across device platforms
(see how to set the aspect ratio for [iOS]() and [JavaScript]()).

```java
RelativeLayout.LayoutParams layoutParams = new RelativeLayout.LayoutParams(width, height);
mSubscriberViewContainer.addView(mSubscriber.getView(), layoutParams);
```

```java
RelativeLayout.LayoutParams layoutParams = new RelativeLayout.LayoutParams(scale*width, scale*height);
mPublisherViewContainer.addView(mPublisher.getView(), layoutParams);
```
